pipelines/magasin-primero/README.md, before:

# magasin_primero - Data ingestion from Primero to a magasin instance

This is a [Dagster](https://dagster.io/) project. Dagster is a pipeline orchestrator, that allows you to define, schedule, and monitor data pipelines. In this project, we use Dagster to ingest data from a Primero instance into a cloud storage (fi. S3 Bucket/MinIO or Azure Blob Storage).

## Pre-requisites

* A primero instance
* A Bucket in S3/MinIO or Azure Blob Storage to store the data.
* Python 3.12

Before modifying the code it is recommended to follow the [get started tutorial of magasin](https://magasin.unicef.io/get-started/). This will help you to understand the basics of magasin.

This pipeline also makes use of the [primero-api library](https://pypi.org/project/primero-api/). This library is a wrapper around the Primero API that is also part of the [magasin-primero-paquet](../README.md).


## Testing the pipeline locally

First, install your Dagster code location as a Python package. By using the --editable flag, pip will install your Python package in ["editable mode"](https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/topics/local-project-installs/#editable-installs) so that as you develop, local code changes will automatically apply.

It is recommended to create a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to install the dependencies:

```bash
python -m venv venv # this is only run once
source venv/bin/activate # Run this every time you want to work on the project
```

Then, install the dependencies:

```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

Edit the `.env` file

```sh
PRIMERO_USER='primero_cp'
PRIMERO_PASSWORD='primero2024'
PRIMERO_API_URL="https://playground.primerodev.org/api/v2/"
ENVIRONMENT='dev'

FSSPEC_S3_ENDPOINT_URL='http://localhost:9000'
FSSPEC_S3_KEY='minio'
FSSPEC_S3_SECRET='minio123'
BUCKET_NAME='primero'

AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING="AccountName=devstoreaccount1;AccountKey=Eby8vdM02xNOcqFlqUwJPLlmEtlCDXJ1OUzFT50uSRZ6IFsuFq2UVErCz4I6tq/K1SZFPTOtr/KBHBeksoGMGw==;DefaultEndpointsProtocol=http;BlobEndpoint=http://127.0.0.1:10000/devstoreaccount1;QueueEndpoint=http://127.0.0.1:10001/devstoreaccount1;TableEndpoint=http://127.0.0.1:10002/devstoreaccount1;"
```

Where 

* The `PRIMERO_USER`, `PRIMERO_PASSWORD`, `PRIMERO_API_URL` are the credentials to connect to the Primero instance. The one in the example is the credentials to connect to the [Primero Playground](https://playground.primerodev.org/).

* The `FSSPEC-S3-*` are the credentials to connect to a S3/MinIO bucket.
* The `BUCKET_NAME` is the name of the bucket/blob container name where the data will be stored.

* The `AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING` is the connection string to connect to an Azure Blob Storage. The one in the example is the connection string to connect to the Azure Storage Emulator using [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://github.com/microsoft/AzureStorageExplorer).

* The `ENVIRONMENT` is the environment where the pipeline is running. It can be `dev`. Any other value will be considered as 'prod'.

Then, start the Dagster UI web server:

```bash
dagster dev
```
Open **http://localhost:3000** with your browser to see the project.

If you use magasin's minio, you need a bucket called `primero` (through `mag minio add bucket --bucket-name primero`) and you need to forward the port 9000 of the MinIO service into the local machine. You can do this by running the following command in another terminal:

```sh
mag minio api
```

In the source code of `assets.py` here are three [dagster assets](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) defined:

* `cases` that gets all the cases in the /<BUCKET_NAME>/cases/cases.parquet
* `incidents` that gets all the incidents in the /<BUCKET_NAME>/incidents/incidents.parquet
* `reports` that gets all the reports in the /<BUCKET_NAME>/reports/report-{report.id}-{report.slug}/report.parquet'

There is a resource called `primero_api_resource` which basically instantiates a PrimeroAPI object of the [`primero-api` library](../../primero-api/).

### Build the docker image

If you have modified the source code of the `pipelines/magasin_primero` folder and you want to run the pipeline in a magasin instance. You need to build the docker image of your pipeline. 



```shell
cd pipelines/magasin-primero
# ./build.sh <your-docker-username or your.azurecr.io> <tag1> <tag2> 
# Example: 
./build.sh  merlos latest v0.0.1
```
This will create a docker image with the name `merlos/magasin-primero-pipeline:latest` and `merlos/magasin-primero-pipeline:v0.0.1` and push it to the docker hub.



### Adding new Python dependencies

You can specify new Python dependencies in `setup.py`.

### Unit testing

Tests are in the `magasin_primero_tests` directory and you can run tests using `pytest`:

```bash
pytest magasin_primero_tests
```

### Schedules and sensors

If you want to enable Dagster [Schedules](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) or [Sensors](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/sensors) for your jobs, the [Dagster Daemon](https://docs.dagster.io/deployment/dagster-daemon) process must be running. This is done automatically when you run `dagster dev`.

Once your Dagster Daemon is running, you can start turning on schedules and sensors for your jobs.


# License

MIT License

Commit message:

added env sample, and azure connection

pipelines/magasin-primero/README.md, after:

# magasin_primero - Data ingestion from Primero to a magasin instance

This is a [Dagster](https://dagster.io/) project. Dagster is a pipeline orchestrator, that allows you to define, schedule, and monitor data pipelines. In this project, we use Dagster to ingest data from a Primero instance into a cloud storage (fi. S3 Bucket/MinIO or Azure Blob Storage).

## Pre-requisites

* A primero instance
* A Bucket in S3/MinIO or Azure Blob Storage to store the data.
* Python 3.12

Before modifying the code it is recommended to follow the [get started tutorial of magasin](https://magasin.unicef.io/get-started/). This will help you to understand the basics of magasin.

This pipeline also makes use of the [primero-api library](https://pypi.org/project/primero-api/). This library is a wrapper around the Primero API that is also part of the [magasin-primero-paquet](../README.md).


## Testing the pipeline locally

First, install your Dagster code location as a Python package. By using the --editable flag, pip will install your Python package in ["editable mode"](https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/topics/local-project-installs/#editable-installs) so that as you develop, local code changes will automatically apply.

It is recommended to create a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to install the dependencies:

```bash
python -m venv venv # this is only run once
source venv/bin/activate # Run this every time you want to work on the project
```

Then, install the dependencies:

```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```
```bash
cp .env-sample .env
```

Edit the `.env` file

```sh
PRIMERO_USER='primero_cp'
PRIMERO_PASSWORD='primero2024'
PRIMERO_API_URL="https://playground.primerodev.org/api/v2/"
ENVIRONMENT='dev'

FSSPEC_S3_ENDPOINT_URL='http://localhost:9000'
FSSPEC_S3_KEY='minio'
FSSPEC_S3_SECRET='minio123'
BUCKET_NAME='primero'

AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING="AccountName=devstoreaccount1;AccountKey=Eby8vdM02xNOcqFlqUwJPLlmEtlCDXJ1OUzFT50uSRZ6IFsuFq2UVErCz4I6tq/K1SZFPTOtr/KBHBeksoGMGw==;DefaultEndpointsProtocol=http;BlobEndpoint=http://127.0.0.1:10000/devstoreaccount1;QueueEndpoint=http://127.0.0.1:10001/devstoreaccount1;TableEndpoint=http://127.0.0.1:10002/devstoreaccount1;"
AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME='azure account name'
AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY='azure account key'
AZURE_STORAGE_SAS_TOKEN='azure sas token'
AZURE_STORAGE_TENANT_ID='azure tenant id'
AZURE_STORAGE_CLIENT_ID='azure client id'
AZURE_STORAGE_CLIENT_SECRET='azure secret
```

Where 

* The `PRIMERO_USER`, `PRIMERO_PASSWORD`, `PRIMERO_API_URL` are the credentials to connect to the Primero instance. The one in the example is the credentials to connect to the [Primero Playground](https://playground.primerodev.org/).

* The `FSSPEC-S3-*` are the credentials to connect to a S3/MinIO bucket.
* The `BUCKET_NAME` is the name of the bucket/blob container name where the data will be stored.

* The `AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING` is the connection string to connect to an Azure Blob Storage. The one in the example is the connection string to connect to the Azure Storage Emulator using [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://github.com/microsoft/AzureStorageExplorer).

* The `AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME`, `AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY`, `AZURE_STORAGE_SAS_TOKEN`, `AZURE_STORAGE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_STORAGE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_STORAGE_CLIENT_SECRET` are the credentials to connect to an Azure Blob Storage. Depending on the configuration of the Azure Blob Storage, you may need to use some of them and remove the others. For example, ACCES_KEY and SAS_TOKEN are mutually exclusive.

* The `ENVIRONMENT` is the environment where the pipeline is running. It can be `dev`. Any other value will be considered as 'prod'. Currently this affects only on the frequency of the schedule. In `dev` the schedule will run every 1 minute and it is disabled by default, in `prod` it will run every day and is enabled by default.

Then, start the Dagster UI web server:

```bash
dagster dev
```
Open **http://localhost:3000** with your browser to see the project.

If you use magasin's minio, you need a bucket called `primero` (through `mag minio add bucket --bucket-name primero`) and you need to forward the port 9000 of the MinIO service into the local machine. You can do this by running the following command in another terminal:

```sh
mag minio api
```

In the source code of `assets.py` here are three [dagster assets](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) defined:

* `cases` that gets all the cases in the /<BUCKET_NAME>/cases/cases.parquet
* `incidents` that gets all the incidents in the /<BUCKET_NAME>/incidents/incidents.parquet
* `reports` that gets all the reports in the /<BUCKET_NAME>/reports/report-{report.id}-{report.slug}/report.parquet'

There is a resource called `primero_api_resource` which basically instantiates a PrimeroAPI object of the [`primero-api` library](../../primero-api/).

### Build the docker image

If you have modified the source code of the `pipelines/magasin_primero` folder and you want to run the pipeline in a magasin instance. You need to build the docker image of your pipeline. 



```shell
cd pipelines/magasin-primero
# ./build.sh <your-docker-username or your.azurecr.io> <tag1> <tag2> 
# Example: 
./build.sh  merlos latest v0.0.1
```
This will create a docker image with the name `merlos/magasin-primero-pipeline:latest` and `merlos/magasin-primero-pipeline:v0.0.1` and push it to the docker hub.



### Adding new Python dependencies

You can specify new Python dependencies in `setup.py`.

### Unit testing

Tests are in the `magasin_primero_tests` directory and you can run tests using `pytest`:

```bash
pytest magasin_primero_tests
```

### Schedules and sensors

If you want to enable Dagster [Schedules](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) or [Sensors](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/sensors) for your jobs, the [Dagster Daemon](https://docs.dagster.io/deployment/dagster-daemon) process must be running. This is done automatically when you run `dagster dev`.

Once your Dagster Daemon is running, you can start turning on schedules and sensors for your jobs.


# License

MIT License
